A library's level of participation and costs vary with the types of shared 
services and resources offered by any one consortium. Some consortium
just offer discounts on databases or journal packages due to the better negotiation 
positions a larger group has verses the reduced clout of an individual library.
Other consortia offer staff training and professional development opportunities
for their member libraries in addition to other services like inter-library loan.

In Colorado, many smaller rural libraries are members of consortia such as
`Marmot`_ on the Western Slope, that allow them to use a centrally hosted
ILS that is shared among similar libraries. Other libraries participate in
`Prospector`_, a union catalog hosted and managed by the Colorado Alliance of
Research Libraries.

More regional consortia, such as Lyrasis or Amigos, also offer opportunities
to share or purchase additional resources and services, sharing the costs and
mitigating risk to a larger group. Coordinating group purchasing of resources
can be more challenging to a smaller library's administration to coordinate
resource sharing on ad hoc basis compared to participating in these larger
consortia.

At the highest level are national and international organizations like OCLC,
that can be leveraged by smaller libraries. Library systems vendors are also
interested in providing hosted ILS services but that can be challenging to
support in resource constrained environments of small libraries or start-ups
that are in the library systems industry.


Information Technology
----------------------
A key benefit of a library consortium is that services that may be expensive to 
manage and may be too specialized to support for any individual library, can be
hosted and managed by a consortium. One of the most common technology services 
that are increasingly being shifted to a consortium are union catalogs that aggregate
all of its member libraries collections into a single, searchable, resource by
library users. In Colorado, there are two examples of such union catalogs that
are support by different library consortia; the Colorado Alliance of Academic
Libraries `Prospector`_ and the Marmot Library Consortium's `Marmot`_ catalog.

Some consortia offer a centrally hosted ILS, link resolvers,
and digital repositories for their member libraries so that each member library 
does not have to maintain their own systems group. Also, depending on the cost
and the type of consortium, many libraries are members of multiple consortia in 
order to leverage the strengths of each consortium to meet the needs of the 
library.

.. _Marmot: http://opac.marmot.org/
.. _Prospector: http://www.coalliance.org/prospector
