Information Technology in corporations is usually thought of as a cost-center
and not a revenue generating unless the corporation is itself a technology
company that sells software, hardware, or services. Thus, ROI is often the
top metric management looks at when evaluating adopting technology or to 
replace legacy systems that may have existed for decades and is now a
critical part of the corporation's information infrastructure. 

Although mainframes and legacy applications still persist, the growth and
emergence of the alternative computing platforms, such as public or private 
cloud infrastructure, has started to replace these legacy applications and varying
rates depending on a number of factors including the type of industry, the
cost and ROI of the replacement technology, and even the number or availability 
of individuals able to program and administrate these applications leave or
retire from their organizations.

Librarians working in corporate libraries may not necessarily be involved, 
if at all, with the technology they use to fulfill their job responsibilities.
They may be very much dependent on the IT department of their department and
it might be impossible to justify the purchase of any library specific software.
A corporate librarian therefore, may have to figure out ways to use the existing
software provided by their IT department, including databases and traditional
client-based PC applications, to create a "pseudo-catalog" of their collection or
figure out other alternatives. 

While it may be a challenge to do this, the growth of "cloud" based services
may make it an easier to sell to the corporation if IT doesn't have to provide
direct support for the software. A general definition of cloud computing are 
web-based applications for use by a corporation's stakeholders that is not purchased
or installed locally within the corporation's IT infrastructure but is hosted and
managed by an external party. There is a concern about relying too 
much on external, third-party applications or if there are privacy or corporate
intellectual property concerns with having data and services existing outside of
the of control and management of the corporate IT department. Still, with the 
growth development of hybrid-clouds [#]_, many of these concerns can be 
mitigated or addressed with the right mixtures technology both within and external
to the corporation.

References
----------
..[#]  Howard, C. Reeves, D. Manes, A. `Hybrid IT: How Internal and External 
       Cloud Services Are Transforming IT`_, 8 February 2012. Gartner Research Report

.. _`Hybrid IT`: How Internal and External Cloud Services Are Transforming IT: http://www.gartner.com/DisplayDocument?doc_cd=231796
