Most libraries, both public and academic, offer personal computers for use
by patrons and staff. Often, the public library is the only option individuals
have for Internet access, especially lower-income groups, and with more services
for all ranges of commercial, educational, and governmental being exclusively 
offered online, providing this access has become more important to service points
in the library. The library systems department or group in a library, beside being
responsible for the library-specific software and hardware, are often required to 
support for the library's physical computing infrastructure including both patron
and staff computers. While computing hardware varies, most workstations that library
system run either Microsoft Windows or more rarely Macintosh or Linux systems. 

Windows Operating Systems
-------------------------
The Microsoft Windows family of operating systems, including Windows XP, 
Windows Vista, Windows 7, and now Windows 8, make up between 76 to 91% [#]_
of all operating systems installed on personal computers. 

While Windows XP is over a decade old, most older computers that are in a library
may be still running Windows XP. While most organizations forgoes upgrading to 
Windows Vista, many organizations have already upgraded to Windows 7 for newer computers
and install Windows 7 on those older machines that can support Windows.

Macintosh
---------
In the past few years, use of Apple's Macintosh computers and operating systems
has increased, likely driven by the huge popularity of Apple's iPhone and iPad
products. Libraries may have a few Macintosh used by staff or even available to some
public patron. Also, especially academic or special libraries, may have all Macintosh
computers if the larger institution that the library is a part of, have adopted 
Macintosh for its computing needs.

Linux
-----
Linux on the workstation is almost non-existent, except for engineering or other 
specialized organizations. Where Linux dominates is on server, either running as 
VM or directly on the hardware. Linux is also the dominate operating systems
for cell phones (Android) or embedded in various specialized hardware applications.
 
Thin Client
-----------
Another trend in libraries is to replace full-fledged workstations with thin clients
that are usually just a monitor, keyboard, mouse, and very small form factor. The thin
client usually doesn't have much hardware or software directly loaded on the computer,
but runs all its software, including the operating system, on a central server. Thin
clients are helpful for library systems because the maintenance and upkeep of hardware
is minimized compared to supporting a large number of full workstations that must be
kept up-to-date individually while a thin client environment allows for more central 
administration.

References
----------
.. [#] `Operating System Market Share`_. Net Market Share. Net Applications. October 2012.


.. _Operating System Market Share: http://marketshare.hitslink.com/operating-system-market-share.aspx?qprid=10&qpcustomd=0&qptimeframe=M&qpsp=163&qpnp=1
